"Question","Answer"
"What is your most significant achievement in your career?","The biggest achievement regarding my work life is working with a company that is in the top 10 globally in its sector, increasing customer satisfaction scores by 12% through a six-month project, and being responsible for this project."
"In which sectors do you have experience?","I have worked in sectors such as Tourism, BPO, SaaS, Informatics, Livestock, and IT."
"What technologies and methods did you use in your last project?","Let me give two different answers, for a personal project I used seemlessm4t, python, spyder, huggingface programs and the methods were nlp, ml, and speech to text. In professional life, I used spss, minitab, googlesheet, and python. It was a Lean Six Sigma project."
"What do you think is the difference between Data Science and Business Analytics?","The most significant difference, in my opinion, is that while business analysts work on defined and framed projects, data scientists usually work on self-defined projects. Business analysts answer questions, data scientists ask questions. Business analysts prioritize experience and company needs when making decisions, whereas data scientists look for meaningful results in large data. Data scientists have to deal with code, which is not a necessity for business analysts. While an academic background like economics and business is expected from a business analyst, statistics, and software are expected from a data scientist."
"In which programming languages are you proficient?","Python, R"
"In which role within a team do you work most efficiently?","In a Manager or Expert role."
"What is the last professional development book you read?","Doughnut Economics: Seven Ways to Think Like a 21st-Century Economist"
"What was the biggest challenge you faced and how did you overcome it?","The biggest challenge was regarding customer experience while working at Lenovo, due to problems in the call center, customer satisfaction decreased, and every well-thought and planned improvement step was unsuccessful because of communication breakdown and perceived hard working conditions by the employees. I overcame the problem by accepting them as internal customers, and the first job was to make them feel better. Protecting their rights, getting feedback, and approaching genuinely. Then the problem was solved."
"What do you think about Lean Six Sigma and how have you applied this methodology?","Lean"
"What is the biggest obstacle you face when managing a project and how do you overcome it?","The actual problems I encounter during a project process are always the most unexpected ones. Every issue is foreseeable, as you manage projects, your competence and foresight on human, work, and process factors increase, but still, definitely unexpected problems arise in every project. I usually overcome this by being open-minded, seeking help, and brainstorming with the team."
"How do you manage conflicts within the team?","Firstly, I need to understand the conflicts within the team completely. Observing and, if necessary, defending the rights and mental health of my team is my job. If the cause of conflict can't be determined right or wrong according to company policies, I arrange meetings with the conflicting individuals. In these meetings, I am more of a listener and conciliator rather than looking from above. I believe that every problem can be solved by talking."
"With which data analysis tools do you have experience?","Spss, SQL, minitab, R, python, and almost every analysis tool since I worked at Google,"
"In your previous jobs, which KPIs did you focus on?","SLA, CSAT, FCR"
"What skill do you think you excel at?","I think the answer to this question is learning. As the child of a teacher and being progressive, I have never left my educational life. And I never want to. So the skill I have the most experience with and do the most is learning, so I think that's the best."
"How do you approach learning a new technology or tool?","Firstly, reading. In the form of technical articles, books, then I expand the reading part a bit more with blogs, articles, shares, projects, theses, and articles. After having literature knowledge about the subject, individual works generally allow me to learn quickly, I think the reason is; the best way to learn something is diversity. An unsuccessful article can actually provide more information than 10 successful articles."
"Who is your mentor in professional life and what have they taught you?","My brother. He gave me a lot of information, but the most useful was: be so good at what you do that no one can say anything to you."
"How do you approach a situation where you have failed in a job?","I accept my mistake and learn from it. I find mistakes more instructive. When you learn how not to do a job, you become successful in it."
"Is there a new skill or technology you want to learn?","Learning Java wouldn't be bad. Project management certification and Scrum certification are also among my desires."
"Where do you see yourself professionally in the next 5 years?","I have two options either in a position related to my career as a senior manager or providing consultancy services to different companies from my own company."
"How much experience do you have with big data technologies?","When you consider data science as a whole, big data might be my weakest area."
"Which metrics do you find most important in CX (Customer Experience) analytics?","Although it varies according to companies, my favorite is Csat, even though it has lost its popularity compared to before."
"What data visualization tools do you use most in the business world?","I have expertise in Data Studio. Generally, because I have knowledge about coding and data visualization, I can adapt very easily to other tools."
"How do you set your career goals and how do you plan to achieve them?","My career goals are entirely related to my own interest. I've already determined it, and while determining, I thought about what would make me happy and where I could intensely experience the feeling of achievement. How I will reach it is through self-improvement."
"What factors do you consider when making decisions related to work?","Efficiency, profitability, and being fair."
"How do you prepare when you take on a new task?","I try to find as many resources, experienced people, and previously done examples as possible."
"What is your first step before starting a job?","Reviewing, thinking, and mapping out a possible roadmap."
"How do you determine your priorities during a project?","By doing a very simple prioritization analysis. By creating a roadmap."
"Which technological tools or software are indispensable for you?","Python, stackoverflow, github, chatgpt."
"When you receive a job offer, what do you pay attention to when deciding whether to accept a position?","If it's about my manager, I first examine my manager. Managers who haven't improved academically, who have been working in the same position for a long time or who haven't added different perspectives to themselves are red flags for me. Secondly, I check the openness of the company to development and new ideas. Then I look at what the company does for its employees, and finally, although it's related to the 3rd point, it's the salary."
"How do you define the limits of your skills and abilities?","I don't put extra effort into this. I know myself and am aware of my potential in what I can do. Being aware of oneself and one's potential is, I believe, all the answer necessary for this question."
"What do you consider fundamental for a successful work relationship?","Open-mindedness and transparency."
"Do you prefer mentoring or being mentored in your professional life?","I prefer mentoring."
"What do you think is the key to gaining respect in the business world?","Equality and honesty."
"Do you have any thoughts on starting your own business? If so, in what field would it be?","Yes, I have a few ideas regarding this. Starting a software consulting firm I believe would be successful, and lastly, establishing a large-scale livestock farm."
"What excites you the most about a new project?","Bringing the project to a unique and successful conclusion."
"What was the most difficult decision you encountered at work and what approach did you take?","There was a budget constraint and it was necessary to lay off a member of my team, and this task was given to me. I made this decision based on analytical thinking, numbers and measurements."
"Where do you see yourself at this stage of your career?","I am where I want to be. I have reached the final step on the interdisciplinary roadmap I had in mind. After a job that can improve me in data science, I believe I will have a unique career."
"Who is your biggest inspiration in your professional life?","My brother."
"What are your thoughts on ethics and honesty in professional life?","I think these two are actually everything in professional life. If there is a lack or delusion in these, it will surely burst out somewhere."
"How do you find receiving feedback in your professional life?","Feedback is everything. I see feedback as a golden opportunity for personal development, and the development of the firm in every aspect."
"How do you react when faced with an unexpected problem in a project?","I research, learn, collect views and ideas on how it can be resolved, then discuss with people which one might work. Following that, a trial/error process begins."
"How do you adapt to a new role in a job?","Excluding human relations, it's very fast; I ask a lot of questions. I try to get as much information as I can, not related to my expertise but regarding the processes related to the firm. Working in data-related roles, I realized that the more you are familiar with the firm and its business, the more successful a data worker you become."
"What is the latest thing you learned related to your job?","The more probabilities, the broader and more successful perspective. It will be beneficial to have as many different perspectives as possible when dealing with data."
"How do you set and manage your priorities?","I have an analytical mind generally, I figure out weight ratios in my head and act accordingly."
"What is the most valuable advice you have received regarding your work?","It was probably a piece of advice from my dad: Everyone who puts in effort deserves respect. Don’t overlook this for efficiency and the firm's profitability. Never forget to show the necessary respect to people."
"What do you think about the biggest trends in your profession?","They excite me. Especially chatgpt. People in the industry may fear that it will take their jobs, but for me, on the contrary, it supports me in an unprecedented way. It saves all kinds of time and can show me details I'm not aware of."
"How do you resolve conflicts within a team?","Talking is the key. To understand the problem, you need to listen, and while listening, a single perspective can always be misleading. My interest in data also helps in these cases generally. Obtaining different perspectives and all possible information, then how it will be resolved changes according to the situation. I didn’t find it right to say I resolve it in a specific way."
"How would you describe yourself in three words?","Reliable, progressive, and fair."
"What activities do you engage in during your free time?","My plants, reading manga, watching anime, playing with my dog, playing games, and working on projects for myself."
"How do you reflect your personal success in your work life?", "Every success adds something to you, this is a bit hard to answer but a situation that has brought success is something that makes sense to continue in any way."
"Is there a new thing or skill you want to learn? What is it?", "I would like to deal with and learn agriculture/soil."
"What motivates you during tough times?", "Knowing that the key to solving tough times is me."
"What would be your ideal work environment?", "A place where I am not far from my dog, and is not in the city or in an apartment is ideal for me."
"Can you talk about a personal success?", "I was third in a chess tournament in Ankara. Also, I have a world championship in a game with 200k players."
"How do you organize yourself in your daily routine?", "I usually create a task list in my head and turn it into a game. Every task is a game that needs to be completed, and at the end, there's a reward :D."
"What communities or organizations do you connect with outside of work?", "We have a console game group outside of NGOs, also a team we play frp with. Lastly, I mentor and help a game translation group established by young friends without financial concerns."
"What are the most important values in your life?", "Compassion, empathy, equality"
"What have you done recently to learn something new?", "I worked voluntarily in a job."
"How do you improve yourself outside of work life?", "I don’t use social media in general. Even if it's not related to work life, I don’t want to use Linkedin, but the time I spend on my phone is still equal to other people. Because I like reading and researching. If there's a word or something I don't know in a conversation, I spend the time I would spend on social media reading this subject. Of course, I can't say I learn them all, but this gives me introductory level knowledge in many different subjects."
"Can you share a recent challenge you encountered and how you dealt with it?","I had to stay away from my dog for a while and developed an unwanted habit during this process. How I solved it was by exercising every day with persistence and patience to correct this behavior."
"How do your personal hobbies or interests affect your job?","Having dabbled in carpentry taught me that to achieve success one needs to plan and build towards the result gradually, while gaming taught me the virtue of trying again and again until the desired outcome is reached. During the times I dealt with animal husbandry, I learned the clear-cut concept of 'you reap what you sow.' Chess bestowed upon me the skill of foresight."
"How do you strike a balance between your personal and professional development?","I see professional advancements as personal development too since I choose them, so it's not a matter I have ever considered."
"What are your passions outside of work?","Manga, Carpentry, Animal husbandry, Gaming, Camping, Chess."
"What do you love and hate the most about teamwork?","The feeling of accomplishing and succeeding in a task with a good team, and having a smooth flow while doing it could be what I love the most."
"Do you see yourself as a leader? Why or why not?","Yes, I see myself as a leader. It might be more about my upbringing than my education and open-mindedness, perhaps because my mother is a teacher and my father is a lawyer. Being someone who values education, protects their team, and demonstrates understanding makes me a good leader."
"How do you generally approach a disagreement with a team member?","I talk."
"How do you deal when you find yourself under stress?","I often work more efficiently under stress because I know it will continue unless I eliminate the source of the stress, so stress motivates me more, and I resolve it quickly. If it's a situation I can't resolve, I focus on my work and don't let it affect me."
"What did you learn from a mistake in the past?","While working in a managerial position, I learned that I couldn’t make everyone happy equally."
"How do you balance your work and personal life?","It's not such a difficult issue actually. For me, the key is distinctness. The time work can demand from you is definite, and I protect and adhere to this limit as my right. If this balance is lost, since you get less output from both sides, I point out the situation to the companies that try to disrupt this balance; if it's not accepted, it signifies that our end is near."
"What volunteer work have you done or would like to do?", "I have active relationships with NGOs (unfortunately, it has decreased a lot after covid :/). I have memberships in organizations ranging from street animals to volunteer organizations that will help in disaster situations."
"What is the biggest driving force behind your success?", "The duo of curiosity and learning. Although it may sound unrelated at first, when they come together, you can't be satisfied without approaching the best in the job you learn."
"Can you share a success unrelated to work?", "I took the initiative in an agreement with a municipality for a non-governmental organization named Pugedon, which produces street machines that provide food for street animals by supporting recycling."
"What is your biggest achievement outside of work?", "I have a European championship in folk dances."
"What kind of training do you take or plan to take outside of working hours?", "The trainings are very comprehensive and not connected. I focus on topics that interest me. What I want is to learn sign language."
"What is the proudest moment you had on a project or activity in the past?", "We had come third in a TUBITAK competition during high school."
"Can you talk about a feedback you received outside of work?", "My friends generally say that I am reliable. I am one of the first people they call when there is a problem."
"What topics would you like to be more knowledgeable about?", "Software, law, carpentry."
"On what topics outside of work do you have the most desire to learn?", "It may sound strange, but animal husbandry and carpentry."
"When was the last time you learned something and what was it?", "I learned Optics I recently."
"What values guide your work life?","Equality, progressiveness, innovativeness, and reliability."
"What is your 16 personality test result?","ENFP-A"
"What was the job you were most proud of when you worked?","Having had the opportunity to work with companies like Google, Lenovo, I prefer the job I did as personnel manager at an animal farm :). There wasn't much importance to titles on the farm, so I looked at every job and learned a lot about dairy farming with my general intellectual accumulation and hunger for learning. Being in communication with animals, seeing your results directly, and getting feedback as much as you work hard was truly an incredible pleasure."
"What sports are you interested in?","Basketball, Table tennis and I'm not bad in e-sports. But I could never reach the professional level."
"Do you find it difficult to introduce yourself to other people?","I disagree with that. Since information is the most important resource, it's important to explain oneself in a transparent and simple manner for the healthy development of human relations. Since I believe in this, I definitely don't feel in difficulty. Why should it be difficult to know and explain oneself clearly?"
"Most of the time, you get so lost in your thoughts that you ignore or forget about your surroundings.","Although it happens occasionally, it's not a very common situation. Sometimes I leave myself in between my thoughts because human relationships feel exhausting."
"You try to respond to your emails as soon as possible and can't stand a cluttered inbox.","Unfortunately, this is not the case. These are not topics that bother me. Of course, if there is work ethic in the situation, I will reply to the emails quickly, but my answer in a subject with no time limit is entirely related to my availability. Disarray never bothers me."
"Even in situations with a bit of pressure, you can easily stay calm and focused.","This is definitely true. I don't easily allow pressure to leave a negative impact on me, in fact, there are situations where I perform better under pressure."
"Usually, you are not the one starting conversations.","This is partly true. As someone who likes to get information, I attach importance to listening to people. It's important to listen and learn before I speak myself. Besides, when others open a topic, you have the opportunity to learn something new. Who would want to miss that?"
"You rarely do something out of mere curiosity.","Unfortunately, I disagree with this. Curiosity is, in my opinion, a sweet feeling that keeps a person alive. It's also encouraging. I believe that curiosity is a flame that a person should keep within throughout their life."
"Do you feel superior to other people?","I have to agree with this slightly. The time I dedicate to my education and development, my hunger for knowledge and living this way for many years can sometimes give me a sense of superiority over people who do not value these."
"Is being organized more important to you than being adaptable?","Adaptability is much more important. By our social nature, living in harmony is an inevitable part of our existence."
"Are you usually highly motivated and energetic?","I partly agree with this but not towards everything. However, if there's a topic that interests me, my motivation and energy increase. As someone who loves to learn, I have no trouble finding topics that pique my interest."
"Is winning an argument less important than making sure no one gets upset?","It varies depending on the subject of the discussion but generally, I disagree. We should not upset anyone easily. Moreover, I do not appreciate winning an argument just for the sake of winning."
"Do you often feel you have to justify yourself to other people?","Honestly, I don’t agree with this. It usually turns out to be a waste of time trying to change people's thoughts once I know I am right. I try to keep my ideas and thoughts open to avoid being a waste of time for myself compared to people, but I find it exhausting to offer people a different perspective just to defend my righteousness."
"Are your home and work environments quite tidy?","Unfortunately, no :D."
"Do you mind being the center of attention?","I have no problem with that. I usually don't make an effort to be the center of attention but if I become, I accept it and enjoy it."
"Do you think of yourself as more practical than creative?","I definitely disagree. My creative personality is more dominant; in fact, if you are creative enough, you are practical as well."
"Do people rarely upset you?","This is a correct statement. Generally, I don’t easily allow people to upset me. It's not in my character."
"Are your travel plans usually well-thought-out?","When it comes to travel, I definitely prefer it to be spontaneous."
"Do you find it difficult to connect with other people’s emotions most of the time?","Not at all difficult as someone who loves to listen."
"Does your mood change very quickly?","Not inconsistently, but my mood can change according to my truth and ethics. Since the person in front of me doesn't know this, it may leave the impression that it is changing quickly."
"In a discussion, should truth be more important than people's sensitivities?","Truth is always the most important thing. I try to pay attention to sensitivities and not to offend, but if doing so is equal to not reflecting the truth, I prefer to tell the truth."
"Do you rarely worry about how your actions affect other people?","No, I do worry but not too much."
"Is your work style closer to random bursts of energy than to a methodical and organized approach?","I could have said I used to be like that in the past, but now I have realized that an organized approach is much more efficient and I try to reflect this knowledge in my life generally."
"Do you often envy others?","No."
"Is an interesting book or video game often better than a social event?","I have to admit this. Anything that comes out with imagination and effort is much more valuable. Instead of maybe a few days of happiness and daily conversations you will never remember from a social event in daily life, I prefer more memorable, fun, and labor-intensive things."
"Is the most important part of every project to develop a plan and stick to it?","I can't say it's the most important but I can't ignore the fact that it's important."
"Do you rarely get carried away with fantasies and ideas?","I definitely disagree. Ideas and fantasies are ways that can reveal our potential and most importantly, they are profound."
"While walking in nature, do you often find yourself lost in your thoughts?","On the contrary, I find myself in the midst of thoughtlessness and enjoy it immensely."
"If someone doesn’t respond to your email quickly, do you start worrying if you said something wrong?","I definitely disagree with this. I can't even comment, I disagree so much :D."
"As a parent, do you prefer your child to grow up kind rather than smart?","This is a nice question but I would prefer my child to be kind."
"Do you not allow others to affect your actions?","Yes, generally I don’t allow it."
"Are your dreams tend to focus on the real world and the events within it?","Partly yes."
"At your new workplace, it doesn’t take you long to start participating in social activities.","I am neutral on this as it depends on the environment in the workplace."
"Are you more of an improviser than a careful planner?","This is partly true. I have the ability to improvise."
"Do your emotions control you more than you control them?","It’s the exact opposite. I control my emotions."
"Do you enjoy going to social events that involve dressing up or role-play activities?","Absolutely yes. As someone interested in fantasy literature, this has always caught my interest."
"Do you often spend time exploring unrealistic and illogical, yet interesting ideas?","I disagree with this. The applicability of my ideas is usually important to me."
"Do you prefer improvising over spending time to create a detailed plan?","It varies, if it’s about work life I may prefer a detailed plan, for a vacation I may prefer improvising."
"Are you relatively reserved and quiet?","Yes, this is true. As someone who enjoys listening, I am quieter. Ideal human communication for me is more about efficient information transmission or discussion rather than talking about what one did the previous day. It could be in a debate."
"If you were a business owner, it would be very difficult for you to fire loyal but underperforming employees.","I wouldn’t struggle much with this issue. There are tons of jobs and methods I would resort to before doing that, like performance enhancement, discovering the individual’s potential, placing in the ideal position, etc. If none of these worked, I wouldn’t hesitate to fire them."
"Mostly, you ponder the reasons for human existence.","Who doesn't?"
"When making significant decisions, logic is generally more important than heart.","I definitely agree."
"Keeping your options open is more important than having a to-do list.","Both are important for me and one doesn’t outweigh the other."
"If your friend is upset about something, it's more likely for you to offer emotional support rather than suggesting ways to solve the problem.","Even if my nature urges me to generate solutions, generally what people need is emotional support and respecting that, I mostly offer emotional support."
"You rarely feel insecure.","I strongly disagree."
"You have no difficulty in creating a personal time schedule and sticking to it.","I may experience difficulties sometimes but most of the times I don’t."
"When it comes to teamwork, being right is more important than being cooperative.","I am not sure, it varies according to the situation. I am neutral on this."
"Whether supported by facts or not, everyone's opinions deserve respect.","I agree."
"After spending time with a group of people, you feel more energized.","It varies according to the people I spend time with, but generally, they do not make me more energized in today's society. Daily routine conversations, private information that doesn’t contribute to me at all, are not of my interest."
"You often misplace your belongings.","Partly true."
"You see yourself as emotionally very stable.","Partly true."
"Your mind is always occupied with unexplored ideas and plans.","Partly true."
"You wouldn't call yourself a dreamer.","I would definitely say that. Dreaming is the most beautiful thing."
"You usually find it difficult to be relaxed when speaking in front of many people.","I have no struggle with this issue."
"Generally, you rely on your experience rather than your imagination.","Experience is always more important but the ideal is a blend of both. It makes the most sense to dream about a subject you know."
"You worry too much about what other people think.","I don't worry much, honestly."
"If the room is full, you stay closer to the walls, avoiding the center.","Never experienced that, doesn't matter where I stand. I strongly disagree."
"You have a tendency to procrastinate until there is not enough time to do everything.","Unfortunately, no but there can be times I experience it."
"You feel very anxious in stressful situations.","No, I generally do not feel anxious under stress."
"You believe being liked by others is more rewarding than being powerful.","This varies, I don’t have a definite answer."
"You have always been interested in unconventional and ambiguous things, e.g. in books, art, or movies.","Yes"
"You often take the initiative in social situations.","Yes, I do, but there are also many times I don’t. It's balanced."
